# 01 - Classics

## Multiples of 3 or 5
_(source : [https://projecteuler.net/problem=2](https://projecteuler.net/problem=1))_

If we list all the natural numbers below 10 that are multiples of 3 or 5, we get 3, 5, 6 and 9. The sum of these multiples is 23.

Find the sum of all the multiples of 3 or 5 below 1000.

---

## Even Fibonacci numbers
_(source : [https://projecteuler.net/problem=2](https://projecteuler.net/problem=2))_

Each new term in the Fibonacci sequence is generated by adding the previous two terms. By starting with 1 and 2, the first 10 terms will be:

1, 2, 3, 5, 8, 13, 21, 34, 55, 89, ...

By considering the terms in the Fibonacci sequence whose values do not exceed four million, find the sum of the even-valued terms.

---

## Palindrome detection

A palindrome is a word or number that reads the same both ways, such as _"radar"_, _"level"_ or _"7557"_.

Considering any string (or array of characters), write a program that identifies if the input string is a palindrome or not.

---

## Sorting one array

_(example in PHP)_

Considering the following array :
```php
$input = [6, 8, -9, 12, 789, 27, 110, -638, 2, 0, 0, 7, 1, 99, -27];
```

Write a function that will accept an array of integers and sort them by ascending number and
eliminating duplicates.

When applying the algorithm to the array above, the result should be :
```php
$output === [-638, -27, -9, 0, 1, 2, 6, 7, 8, 12, 27, 99, 110, 789];
```

(Note: Research the different sorting algorithms and see if one would be more efficient than the others.)

---

## Merging two sorted arrays with redundant elements

_(example in C)_

Considering the following sorted arrays :
```c
int array1[10] = {-25, -12, 0, 1, 3, 6, 7, 8, 44};
int array2[8] = {-9, -8, -1, 6, 7, 12, 44, 100};
```

Write a function that will accept two sorted arrays and merge them.
Moreover, _any_ number that appears in both arrays should be removed from the resulting array.

When applying the algorithm above, the result should be :
```c
{-25, -12, -9, -8, -1, 0, 1, 3, 8, 12, 100};
```

(Note: Research the different merging algorithms and see if one would be more efficient than the others.)

---

