# Challenge: Exquisite corpse
|Challenge Parameters  |Challenge Details              |
|:---------------------|:------------------------------|
|Repository            |`Exquisite corpse`             |
|Challenge type        |`Learning challenge`           |
|Duration              |`½ day`                        |
|Deadline              |``       				       |
|Deployment method     |`GitHub`                       |
|Group composition     |`Solo`                         |


## Objectives

- Learn [Markdown](https://github.com/adam-p/markdown-here/wiki/Markdown-Cheatsheet)
- Improvement of Git skills
- Learning a workflow with contributors on GitHub

## Instructions

With several people, try to make a [Cadavre exquis fr](https://fr.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cadavre_exquis_(jeu))/[Exquisite corpse](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Exquisite_corpse) using Git to exchange your contributions.   
**Concept** : be able to work on the same files at the same time, managing conflicts (or avoiding them).

### Step 1: Initialization
1. Create a repository on GitHub named `Exercice-Cadavre-Exquis-Firstname`
1. Create a *README.md* file
1. In markdown, give a title to your story
1. `clone` the repository to your local machine
1. Create a branch named __"development"__
1. Go to this new branch
1. Write *3* lines of text to start a story in the *README.md* __(using markdown to its fullest!)__ (You can optionally add an image, a link or/amd commented code in addition to your 3 lines).
1. Make an `add`
1. Make an `commit`
1. Make an `push` to the __"development"__
1. Invite your colleagues as __contributors__

### Step 2: Contributions
1. Go to a repository where you have been invited
1. Make an `clone`
1. Do `git branch -a` to display the list of branches on the server
1. Make a `pull` of the branch __"development"__.
1. Do a `checkout` on the __"development"__ branch.
1. Create a branch named __"add-your-name"__ from __"development"__
1. Add your *3* lines of text in the *README.md* after the previous user 
1. Make an `add`
1. Make a `commit`
1. Make a `push` of branch __"add-your-name"__
1. Make a `merge` of your branch __"add-your-name"__ with __"development"__
1. Make a `push` of the branch __"development"__.
1. Do this with at least 10 of your colleagues

### Step 3: Versioning
1. When at least 10 of your colleagues have been to your repository, go back to it.
1. Make a `merge`  from __"development"__ to __"master"__.
1. Make `tag` of "master" named __"version-1"__

### Step 4: Correction
1. Creating a "corrections" branch from __"master"__
1. Make spelling corrections. If there are none, add the mention ("No mistakes!")
1. Make an `add`
1. Make a `commit` 
1. Make a `push`
1. make a `merge` to __"master"__
1. Go to branch __"development"__
1. Update __"development"__ by making a merge with the branch __"corrections"__.

### Step 5: Establish what has been learned
Write a personal memo in MarkDown about how Git works, the `workflow`, useful commands. Keep it available at all times. Complete it during training, as you understand more and encounter new situations.

### Tools to be used

1. Use GitHub **_ONLY_** to:  
   a) at the beginning, create the repository  
   b) at the end, review the final result
2. Use the terminal for _everything else_ git-related (clone, pull, merge, commit, push, etc.)
3. Use your preferred text editor or IDE to write the story (vim in the terminal, Visual Studio Code, ...)
4. Do _NOT_ use GitHub to merge or create branches!

## Resources / help

- [Git Basics](https://rogerdudler.github.io/git-guide/index.html)
- [Git Cheat Sheet](https://rogerdudler.github.io/git-guide/files/git_cheat_sheet.pdf)
- [Git Flow](https://lafor.ge/git-workfolow/)

[Go back to markdown](README.md)


